1. Br J Nutr. 2024 Jan 14;131(1):163-173. doi: 10.1017/S0007114523001423. Epub
2023  Jun 30.

Does fruit and vegetable consumption impact mental health? Systematic review and 
meta-analyses of published controlled intervention studies.

Appleton KM(1), Boxall LR(1), Adenuga-Ajayi O(1), Seyar DF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Bournemouth University, Poole, UK.

Associations between fruit and vegetable (FV) consumption and mental health are 
suggested, largely from observational studies. This systematic review aimed to 
identify and summarise all published controlled intervention studies 
investigating the effects of FV consumption on mental health in adults. Four 
academic databases (Medline, PsycINFO, PubMed, Web of Science) were searched on 
16 September 2022, over all years, for studies that used an intervention design; 
included FV consumption; included an appropriate non-FV-consumption control; 
used a validated measure of mental health and were conducted in healthy adults 
or adults with solely a depressive or anxiety-related condition. Study details 
were tabulated and combined using meta-analyses. Risk of bias was assessed using 
the domains of the Cochrane Collaboration. Six studies, enrolling 691 healthy 
adults and reporting on one or more mental health outcomes, were found. 
Meta-analyses found small and imprecise effects of FV consumption for: 
psychological well-being (4 studies, 289 participants) standardised mean 
difference (SMD) = 0·07 (95 % CI -0·17, 0·30), P = 0·58, I2 = 0 %; depressive 
symptomology (3 studies, 271 participants) SMD = -0·15 (95 % CI -0·40, 0·10), P 
= 0·23, I2 = 47 % and anxiety-related symptomology (4 studies, 298 participants) 
SMD = -0·15 (95 % CI -0·39, 0·08), P = 0·20, I2 = 71 %. Some benefit for 
psychological well-being was found in change-from-baseline data: SMD = 0·28 (95 
% CI 0·05, 0·52), P = 0·02, I2 = 0 %. Risk of bias was high in many studies. 
Limitations include the consideration only of published studies and stem from 
the studies found. Given the few, limited studies available and the small size 
of effects, stronger evidence is needed before recommending FV consumption for 
mental health.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114523001423
PMID: 37387229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Br J Nutr. 2024 Jan 14;131(1):63-72. doi: 10.1017/S0007114523001484. Epub 2023
 Jul 10.

Association between consumption of sweeteners and endometrial cancer risk: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies.

Li H(#)(1), Zhang Y(#)(2), He Y(3), Huang J(2), Yao J(2), Zhuang X(4).

Author information:
(1)Gynecology, The Affiliated Lihuili Hospital, Ningbo University, Ningbo, 
Zhejiang, People's Republic of China.
(2)School of Public Health, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang, People's Republic of China.
(3)The Second Clinical Medical College, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, People's Republic of China.
(4)Gynecology Department of Mingzhou Hospital, Ningbo, 315000Zhejiang, People's 
Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

The purpose of this study is to further investigate the relationship between 
sweetener exposure and the risk of endometrial cancer (EC). Up until December 
2022, a literature search in an electronic database was carried out utilizing 
PubMed, Web of Science, Ovid, and Scopus. The odds ratio (OR) and 95 % 
confidence interval (CI) were used to evaluate the results. Sweeteners were 
divided into nutritional sweeteners (generally refers to sugar, such as sucrose 
and glucose) and non-nutritional sweeteners (generally refers to artificial 
sweeteners, such saccharin and aspartame). Ten cohort studies and two 
case-control studies were eventually included. The study found that in 12 
studies, compared with the non-exposed group, the incidence rate of EC in the 
sweetener exposed group was higher (OR = 1·15, 95 % CI = [1·07, 1·24]). Subgroup 
analysis showed that in 11 studies, the incidence rate of EC in the nutritional 
sweetener exposed group was higher than that in the non-exposed group (OR = 
1·25, 95 % CI = [1·14, 1·38]). In 4 studies, there was no difference in the 
incidence rate of EC between individuals exposed to non-nutritional sweeteners 
and those who were not exposed to non-nutritional sweeteners (OR = 0·90, 95 % CI 
= [0·81, 1·01]). This study reported that the consumption of nutritional 
sweeteners may increase the risk of EC, whereas there was no significant 
relationship between the exposure of non-nutritional sweeteners and the 
incidence of EC. Based on the results of this study, it is recommended to reduce 
the intake of nutritional sweeteners, but it is uncertain whether use of 
on-nutritional sweeteners instead of nutritional sweetener.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114523001484
PMID: 37424288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Br J Nutr. 2024 Jan 14;131(1):54-62. doi: 10.1017/S0007114523001678. Epub 2023
 Jul 31.

Association of dietary inflammatory index with risk of gestational diabetes 
mellitus and preeclampsia: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Hong L(#)(1), Zhu L(#)(2), Zhang J(1), Fu Y(1), Qi X(1), Zhao M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)Department of Nursing, The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC, Division of 
Life Sciences and Medicine, University of Science and Technology of China, 
Hefei, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Findings from observational studies have suggested a possible association 
between dietary inflammatory index (DII) and risk of gestational diabetes 
mellitus (GDM) and preeclampsia (PE). However, the results of these studies were 
inconclusive. A systematic review and meta-analysis was carried out to 
illuminate this association. Systematic literature search was conducted in 
PubMed, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, EMBASE, Scopus and other databases 
from inception until January 2023. The qualities of included studies were 
assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa scale. Nine studies (seven cohort, two 
case-control) were included in the meta-analysis, including 11 423 participants 
from five different countries. The meta-analysis indicated that a 1-unit 
increase in the DII score, representing pro-inflammatory diet, was associated 
with 13 % higher risk of GDM (OR = 1·13; 95 % CI 1·02, 1·25, I2 = 68·4 %, P = 
0·004) and 24 % higher risk of PE (OR = 1·24; 95 % CI 1·14, 1·35, I2 = 52·0 %, P 
= 0·125). Subgroup analysis found that this association was evident among 
studies with Chinese populations (OR = 1·16; 95 % CI 1·06, 1·28) and studies 
with mid pregnancy (OR = 1·20; 95 % CI 1·07, 1·34). The findings indicate that 
pro-inflammatory diet can increase the risk of GDM and PE. Considering some 
limitations in this study, more studies are needed to verify this association.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114523001678
PMID: 37519248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Biomol Biomed. 2024 Jan 14. doi: 10.17305/bb.2023.10035. Online ahead of
print.

Prediabetes and the incidence of Parkinson's disease: A meta-analysis.

Jin X(1), Lu Y(1), Gong Z(1), Huang W(1), Wang Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Tianjin First Central Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Nankai University, Tianjin, China.

Diabetes has been associated with an elevated risk of Parkinson's disease (PD), 
yet the relationship between prediabetes (PreD) and the incidence of PD in the 
adult population remains unclear. Therefore, a systematic review and 
meta-analysis was conducted to evaluate if PreD is also associated with a higher 
risk of PD. We conducted comprehensive searches of the PubMed, Embase, and Web 
of Science databases to identify relevant observational studies with 
longitudinal follow-up. The random-effects model was employed to synthesize the 
data, mitigating the potential impact of study heterogeneity on the outcomes. 
Our analysis incorporated seven datasets from five cohort studies, encompassing 
18,170,592 adult participants without a PD diagnosis at baseline. Among them, 
2,432,148 (13.3%) had PreD. During the follow-up, a total of 46,682 patients 
were diagnosed with PD. The pooled results indicated that PreD was associated 
with an increased incidence of PD (risk ratio [RR] 1.09, 95% confidence interval 
[CI] 1.02 - 1.16; P = 0.02; I2 = 52%), after adjusting for potential confounding 
factors such as age, sex, body mass index (BMI), and smoking. Subsequent pilot 
subgroup analyses suggested that the association between PreD and PD might not 
be significantly influenced by the country of the study, its design, age or sex 
of the participants, definition of PreD, or the quality scores of the study (P 
for subgroup difference all > 0.05). In conclusion, adult population with PreD 
may have a mildly increased risk of developing PD compared to those with 
normoglycemia.

DOI: 10.17305/bb.2023.10035
PMID: 38219272
