1. Br J Nutr. 2024 Jan 14;131(1):82-91. doi: 10.1017/S0007114523001514. Epub 2023
 Jul 10.

Effects of partial replacement of red and processed meat with non-soya legumes 
on bone and mineral metabolism and amino acid intakes in BeanMan randomised 
clinical trial.

Itkonen ST(#)(1), Karhu P(#)(1), Pellinen T(1), Lehtovirta M(2), Kaartinen 
NE(3), Männistö S(3), Päivärinta E(1), Pajari AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food and Nutrition, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, 
Finland.
(3)Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL), Helsinki, Finland.
(#)Contributed equally

The transition towards more plant-based diets may pose risks for bone health 
such as low vitamin D and Ca intakes. Findings for the contribution of animal 
and plant proteins and their amino acids (AA) to bone health are contradictory. 
This 6-week clinical trial aimed to investigate whether partial replacement of 
red and processed meat (RPM) with non-soya legumes affects AA intakes and bone 
turnover and mineral metabolism in 102 healthy 20-65-year-old men. Participants 
were randomly assigned to diet groups controlled for RPM and legume intake 
(designed total protein intake (TPI) 18 E%): the meat group consumed 760 g RPM 
per week (25 % TPI) and the legume group consumed non-soya legume-based products 
(20 % TPI) and 200 g RPM per week, the upper limit of the Planetary Health Diet 
(5 % TPI). No differences in bone (bone-specific alkaline phosphatase; 
tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase 5b) or mineral metabolism (25-hydroxyvitamin 
D; parathyroid hormone; fibroblast growth factor 23; phosphate and Ca) markers 
or Ca and vitamin D intakes were observed between the groups (P > 0·05). 
Methionine and histidine intakes were higher in the meat group (P ≤ 0·042), 
whereas the legume group had higher intakes of arginine, asparagine and 
phenylalanine (P ≤ 0·013). Mean essential AA intakes in both groups met the 
requirements. Increasing the proportion of non-soya legumes by reducing the 
amount of RPM in the diet for 6 weeks did not compromise bone turnover and 
provided on average adequate amounts of AA in healthy men, indicating that this 
ecologically sustainable dietary change is safe and relatively easy to 
implement.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114523001514
PMID: 37424311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Br J Nutr. 2024 Jan 14;131(1):92-102. doi: 10.1017/S0007114523001733. Epub
2023  Aug 10.

Supplementation with (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid appears as effective as 
folic acid in maintaining maternal folate status while reducing unmetabolised 
folic acid in maternal plasma: a randomised trial of pregnant women in Canada.

Cochrane KM(1)(2), Elango R(2)(3), Devlin AM(2)(4), Mayer C(5), Hutcheon 
JA(2)(5), Karakochuk CD(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Food, Nutrition, and Health, Faculty of Land and Food Systems, The University 
of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(2)BC Children's Hospital Research Institute, Healthy Starts, Vancouver, Canada.
(3)Population and Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, The University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(4)Paediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, The University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, Canada.
(5)Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Faculty of Medicine, The University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Folic acid supplementation is recommended during pregnancy to support healthy 
fetal development; (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid ((6S)-5-MTHF) is available 
in some commercial prenatal vitamins as an alternative to folic acid, but its 
effect on blood folate status during pregnancy is unknown. To address this, we 
randomised sixty pregnant individuals at 8-21 weeks' gestation to 0·6 mg/d folic 
acid or (6S)-5-MTHF × 16 weeks. Fasting blood specimens were collected at 
baseline and after 16 weeks (endline). Erythrocyte and serum folate were 
quantified via microbiological assay (as globally recommended) and plasma 
unmetabolised folic acid (UMFA) via LC-MS/MS. Differences in biochemical folate 
markers between groups were explored using multivariable linear/quantile 
regression, adjusting for baseline concentrations, dietary folate intake and 
gestational weeks. At endline (n 54), the mean values and standard deviations 
(or median, inter-quartile range) of erythrocyte folate, serum folate and plasma 
UMFA (nmol/l) in those supplemented with (6S)-5-MTHF v. folic acid, 
respectively, were 1826 (sd 471) and 1998 (sd 421); 70 (sd 13) and 78 (sd 17); 
0·5 (0·4, 0·8) and 1·3 (0·9, 2·1). In regression analyses, erythrocyte and serum 
folate did not differ by treatment group; however, concentrations of plasma UMFA 
in pregnancy were 0·6 nmol/l higher (95 % CI 0·2, 1·1) in those supplementing 
with folic acid as compared with (6S)-5-MTHF. In conclusion, supplementation 
with (6S)-5-MTHF may reduce plasma UMFA by ∼50 % as compared with 
supplementation with folic acid, the biological relevance of which is unclear. 
As folate is currently available for purchase in both forms, the impact of 
circulating maternal UMFA on perinatal outcomes needs to be determined.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114523001733
PMID: 37649241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
